Alpha cli usage examples (#764)
kyma-project/cli: docs/03-03-examples-alpha.md

---
title: Kyma CLI alpha command usage examples
type: Details
---

The following examples show how to provision a cluster, and to deploy and update Kyma with alpha commands.

## Provision a cluster

> To provision a kubernetes cluster, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provision a Kubernetes cluster, run:
```

Author: Arrgh I thought I had fixed this. Thanks for noticing again.

```bash
kyma alpha provision k3s 
```

## Install Kyma

There are several ways to install Kyma:

> - To install Kyma on a local cluster, you can simply use the `deploy` command.<br>

Reviewer: Normally these HTML tags like `<br>` will not really work except on GitHub, so we don't use them... Also it seems like on the [deployment preview](https://github.com/kyma-project/cli/pull/764#issuecomment-781419136) the code block is not formatted correctly, I'm not sure if it has anything to do with the HTML 🤔 
<img width="1014" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-22 at 08 32 33" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49867570/108676608-ca49c900-74e8-11eb-9fa5-a8a19826402e.png">
```suggestion
- To install Kyma on a local cluster, you can simply use the `deploy` command.
```

Kyma provides a default domain under the URL `https://console.local.kyma.dev`.

>     ```bash
>     kyma alpha deploy 
>     ```

Reviewer: Once again, I have no idea why the code is not formatted properly in the [website](https://deploy-preview-764--kyma-project-cli-preview.netlify.app/cli/overview/#details-kyma-cli-alpha-command-usage-examples), but you can also omit the programming language and see if that makes a difference, or even write single ` instead of triple ``` 😟 
```suggestion
    ```
    kyma alpha deploy 
    ```
```

For example, to install Kyma from a specific version, such as `1.19.1`, run:

    ```bash
    kyma alpha deploy --source=1.19.1
    ```

- Alternatively, to build Kyma from your local sources and deploy it on a remote cluster, run:

    ```bash
    kyma alpha deploy --source=local
    ```
    > **NOTE:** By default, Kyma expects to find the sources in the `./workspace folder`. To adjust the path, set the `-w ${PATH_TO_KYMA_SOURCES}` parameter.

- To deploy Kyma with only specific components, run:

    ```bash
    kyma alpha deploy --components {COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}
    ```
    `{COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the desired component list to be installed. In the following example, only these 6 components are deployed on the cluster:

    ```bash
    defaultNamespace: kyma-system
    prerequisites:
      - name: "cluster-essentials"
      - name: "istio"
        namespace: "istio-system"
    components:
      - name: "testing"
      - name: "xip-patch"
      - name: "istio-kyma-patch"
      - name: "dex"
    ```

- To override the standard Kyma installation, run:

    ```bash
    kyma alpha deploy --values-file {OVERRIDE_FILE_PATH}
    ```

>     `{OVERRIDE_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the parameters to override.<br>
> In the following example, overrides are provided for 2 different components: `ory` and `monitoring`.

Reviewer: This section is also showing up strangely, maybe another empty line will fix it. 
<img width="966" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-22 at 08 40 34" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49867570/108677273-b94d8780-74e9-11eb-9065-b16ce8b6270d.png">

```suggestion

    `{COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the desired component list to be installed. In the following example, only these 6 components are deployed on the cluster:
```

>     - For `ory`, the values of `hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu` and `hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu` will be overriden to `153m` and `53m` respectively.
>     - For `monitoring`, the values of `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory` and `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory` will be overriden to `304Mi` and `204Mi` respectively.
>     ```bash
>      ory:
>       hydra:

Reviewer: Same problem as above on the website preview :
<img width="569" alt="Screen Shot 2021-02-22 at 08 43 22" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49867570/108677555-2103d280-74ea-11eb-92cb-eff44acf06f7.png">

```suggestion
    - For `ory`, the values of `hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu` and `hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu` will be overriden to `153m` and `53m` respectively.
    
    - For `monitoring`, the values of `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory` and `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory` will be overriden to `304Mi` and `204Mi` respectively.
    
    ```bash
     ory:
      hydra:
```

        deployment:
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 153m
            requests:
              cpu: 53m
     monitoring:
      alertmanager:
        alertmanagerSpec:
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 304Mi
            requests:
              memory: 204Mi
    ```

- You can also provide multiple override files at the same time:

    ```bash
    kyma deploy --values-file {OVERRIDEL_FILE_1_PATH} --values-file {OVERRIDE_FILE_2_PATH}
    ```

- Alternatively, you can specify single values instead of a file:

    ```bash
    kyma deploy --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu=153m \
    --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu=53m \
    --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory=304Mi \
    --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory=204Mi
    ```

## Upgrade Kyma

> To upgrade the Kyma version on the cluster, you also use the `alpha deploy` command as described in section [Install Kyma](#install-kyma).

Reviewer: I hope I didn't misunderstand the meaning, but "you also use the alpha deploy command..." sounds a bit confusing (is this an alternative way, the only way, or a required additional step in the upgrade process?) Maybe we can either say "you can also use" if it's an alternative way, or simply say "use", if it's the only way to do it? 
```suggestion
To upgrade the Kyma version on the cluster, you can also use the `alpha deploy` command as described in the [Install Kyma](#install-kyma) section.
```

Author: Good point. The meaning was that the deploy command isn't only used for installation (as in the section above) but also for upgrading. So, `deploy` is the only way to upgrade, but upgrading is not the only function of `deploy`. I'll rephrase it.

Author: The entire section is going to be extended with more examples.

---
title: Kyma CLI alpha command usage examples
type: Details
---

The following examples show how to use the alpha commands to provision a cluster, install and upgrade Kyma, and handle errors.

## Provision a cluster
To provision a Kubernetes cluster, run:

```
kyma alpha provision k3s 
```

> If you want to define the name of your cluster and ???<!-- WHAT EXACTLYX DOES SERVER_ARGS DO? -->, run:

Author: Need input here

Author: "pass arguments to Kubernetes"

    
  - For `monitoring`, the values of `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory` and `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory` will be overriden to `304Mi` and `204Mi` respectively.
    
    ```
    ory:
      hydra:
        deployment:
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 153m
            requests:
              cpu: 53m
     monitoring:
      alertmanager:
        alertmanagerSpec:
          resources:
            limits:
              memory: 304Mi
            requests:
              memory: 204Mi
    ```

- You can also provide multiple values files at the same time:

  ```
  kyma deploy --values-file {VALUES_FILE_1_PATH} --values-file {VALUES_FILE_2_PATH}
  ```

- Alternatively, you can specify single values instead of a file:

  ```
  kyma deploy --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu=153m \
  --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu=53m \
  --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory=304Mi \
  --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory=204Mi
  ```

## Upgrade Kyma

> The `alpha deploy` command not only installs Kyma, you also use it to upgrade the Kyma version on the cluster. You have the same options as described in section [Install Kyma](#install-kyma).

Author: ```suggestion
The `alpha deploy` command not only installs Kyma, you also use it to upgrade the Kyma version on the cluster. You have the same options as described under [Install Kyma](#install-kyma).
```

---
title: Kyma CLI alpha command usage examples
type: Details
---

The following examples show how to use the alpha commands to provision a cluster, install and upgrade Kyma, and handle errors.

## Provision a cluster

> To provision a Kubernetes cluster, run:

Reviewer 2: I would make it more specific, a k3s cluster or a local cluster

Author: ```suggestion
To provision a k3s cluster, run:
```

```
kyma alpha provision k3s 
```

> If you want to define the name of your cluster and pass arguments to the Kubernetes API server (for example, to log to standard errors), run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to define the name of your k3s cluster and pass arguments to the Kubernetes API server (for example, to log to stderr), run:
```

```
kyma alpha provision k3s --name='custom_name' --server-args='--alsologtostderr'
```

## Install Kyma

There are several ways to install Kyma:

> - To install Kyma on a local cluster, simply use the `deploy` command without any flags.

Reviewer 2: That is not specific to a local cluster. You always can just call kyma deploy to any kubernetes cluster. The rest is advanced :)
Just the default URL is specific to a local setup. When calling it on a gardener cluster, then the default URL will be different and cluster specific.

Author: ```suggestion
- To install Kyma, you can simply use the `deploy` command without any flags.
```

> - To install Kyma, simply use the `deploy` command without any flags, and Kyma provides a default domain. 

Author: ```suggestion
- You can simply use the `deploy` command without any flags, and Kyma provides a default domain. 
```

> Kyma provides a default domain under the URL `https://console.local.kyma.dev`.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if you install Kyma on a local cluster, the default URL is `https://console.local.kyma.dev`.
```

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy 
  ```

> - You can also install Kyma using your own domain name, or on a cluster that does not run locally. <br>

Reviewer 2: So just to be clear. The domain is not a requirement for a non-local cluster, there are just different default behaviours

Author: ```suggestion
- If you prefer to install Kyma using your own domain name, you must provide the certificate and key as files. 
```

> If you use a custom domain, you must provide the certificate and key as files. If you don't have a certificate yet, you can create a self-signed certificate and key:

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't have a certificate yet, you can create a self-signed certificate and key:
```

  ```
  openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout key.pem -out crt.pem -days 365
  ```

  When prompted, provide your credentials, such as your name and your domain (as wildcard: `*.$DOMAIN`).

  Then, pass the certificate files to the deploy command:

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy --domain {DOMAIN} --tls-cert crt.pem --tls-key key.pem
  ```

- Optionally, you can specify from which source you want to deploy Kyma, such as the `master` branch, a specific PR, or a release version. For more details, see the documentation for the `alpha deploy` command.<br>
For example, to install Kyma from a specific version, such as `1.19.1`, run:

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy --source=1.19.1
  ```

- Alternatively, to build Kyma from your local sources and deploy it on a remote cluster, run:

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy --source=local
  ```

>   > **NOTE:** By default, Kyma expects to find the sources in the `./workspace folder`. To adjust the path, set the `-w ${PATH_TO_KYMA_SOURCES}` parameter.

Author: ```suggestion
  > **NOTE:** By default, Kyma expects to find local sources in the `$GOPATH/src/github.com/kyma-project/kyma` folder. To adjust the path, set the `-w ${PATH_TO_KYMA_SOURCES}` parameter.
```

- To deploy Kyma with only specific components, run:

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy --components {COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}
  ```

>   `{COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the desired component list to be installed. In the following example, only these six components are deployed on the cluster:

Author: ```suggestion
  `{COMPONENTS_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the desired component list to be installed. In the following example, only six components are deployed on the cluster:
```

  ```

>   defaultNamespace: kyma-system

Author: ```suggestion
```

  prerequisites:
    - name: "cluster-essentials"
    - name: "istio"

>           namespace: "istio-system"

Author: ```suggestion
      namespace: "istio-system"
```

  components:
    - name: "testing"
    - name: "xip-patch"
    - name: "istio-kyma-patch"
    - name: "dex"
  ```

> - To install Kyma with different configuration values than the default settings. For details, see [Change Kyma settings](#change-kyma-settings).

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also install Kyma with different configuration values than the default settings. For details, see [Change Kyma settings](#change-kyma-settings).
```
```suggestion
- To install Kyma with different configuration values than the default settings. For details, see [Change Kyma settings](#change-kyma-settings).
```

## Change Kyma settings

To change your Kyma configuration, use the `alpha deploy` command and deploy the same Kyma version that you're currently using, just with different settings.

You can use the `--values-file` and the `--value` flag.

- To override the standard Kyma configuration, run:

  ```
  kyma alpha deploy --values-file {VALUES_FILE_PATH}
  ```

  In the following example, `{VALUES_FILE_PATH}` is the path to a YAML file containing the desired configuration:

  - For `ory`, the values of `hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu` and `hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu` will be overriden to `153m` and `53m` respectively.
    
  - For `monitoring`, the values of `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory` and `alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory` will be overriden to `304Mi` and `204Mi` respectively.
  
  ```
  ory:
    hydra:
      deployment:
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 153m
          requests:
            cpu: 53m
  monitoring:
    alertmanager:
      alertmanagerSpec:
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: 304Mi
          requests:
            memory: 204Mi
  ```

>   You can also provide multiple values files at the same time:

Author: ```suggestion
- You can also provide multiple values files at the same time:
```

  ```
  kyma deploy --values-file {VALUES_FILE_1_PATH} --values-file {VALUES_FILE_2_PATH}
  ```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If a value is defined in several files, the value of the last file in the list is used.
```

> - Alternatively, you can specify single values instead of a file:

Author: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can specify single values instead of a file:
```

  ```
  kyma deploy --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.limits.cpu=153m \
  --value ory.hydra.deployment.resources.requests.cpu=53m \
  --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.limits.memory=304Mi \
  --value monitoring.alertmanager.alertmanagerSpec.resources.requests.memory=204Mi
  ```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If a value is defined several times, the last value definition in the list is used. The `---value` flag also overrides any conflicting value that is defined in a `--value-file`flag.
```

## Debugging

The alpha commands support error handling in several ways, for example:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- To get a detailed view of the installation process, use the `--verbose` flag.
```

> - To tweak the values on a component level, use `alpha deploy --components` to find out the settings that work for your installation.

Author: ```suggestion
- To tweak the values on a component level, use `alpha deploy --components` to pass a components list that includes only the components you want to test and try out the settings that work for your installation.

> - To understand which component failed during deployment, deactivate the `--atomic` flag for `alpha deploy`. <br>With active atomic deployment, any component that hasn't been installed successfully is rolled back, which may make it hard to find out what went wrong.

Author: ```suggestion
- To understand which component failed during deployment, *deactivate* the default atomic deployment: `--atomic=false`. 
   With atomic deployment active, any component that hasn't been installed successfully is rolled back, which may make it hard to find out what went wrong. By disabling the flag, the failed components are not rolled back.
```
